We're talking to Betsy Shirley in Reynoldsville, New Jersey.
But don't put that in.
No, no, let me, that's just for the sake of identification.
Yeah.
Let me also say, while this is running, I will not in any way identify where we are.
Good.
New Jersey.
Right.
World New Jersey.
New Jersey is fun.
The world's New Jersey.
Yeah, let me just.
Well, Mrs. Shirley, tell me.
Yes, sir.
Tell me, please, how you became a book collector.
Well, I think that's why I was correcting Carl.
I started collecting a man by the name of Hudson, who's a naturalist, English naturalist, and I got kind of bored with him and didn't like.
You know, I just sort of thought it would be fun to collect something.
I was looking for something to do.
When approximately would this have been?
Well, that's why I corrected Carl.
I think it was about 23, 24 years ago or something, but I didn't really like Mr. Hudson.
And then I went to find a, Carl was making guns, that's why I arrested you, and I thought it would be fun to find an illustrated book about Daniel Boone that had pictures of Kentucky rifles.
And so I happened to go to Justin Schiller's shop, and anyway got fascinated with all his books, did get Carl, Daniel Boone, which I
since stolen away from you and given to Yale, I think.
But anyway, and that sort of started children's books.
I think we should note for the record that you are descended from a very prominent book family.
Did this have anything to do with your interest?
Didn't at the time, because my father, there were three Beinecke brothers, two collected books,
Uh, Uncle Edwin really started collecting books, and I guess he's got the greatest Stevenson collection.
Uncle Fritz started later in life collecting books, and he had, uh, uh, what is his, uh, Lewis and Clark, west of the Mississippi collection that's all at Yale.
My father didn't collect books at all.
in my family, actually, except my brother collected books.
He collected James Barry and Lord Tweedsmore, who is, I forget who.
No, that's B-A-R-R-E, right, Barry?
Barry, yes.
Peter Pan Barry.
Peter, that's what I thought.
And Lord Tweedsmore is, I can't remember his name.
But anyway.
Can I just interrupt for one second?
The Hudson that you were collecting in the beginning, that was who?
Do you remember the first name?
I'll tell you how much I like it.
I'll come up with it a little later.
You'll find I can't remember quite so well.
I'll remember in a minute or two.
He was a naturalist, English naturalist.
I'll find it.
Don't even worry about it.
English naturalist named Hudson.
Yeah.
Okay.
I'm sorry.
Go ahead.
Well, anyway, that's...
That's pretty much it.
Then I started, then I thought, ah, children's books, that'll be fun.
So that's sort of when it started, and I think it had to be about 22 years ago.
So we're talking roughly about 1970, late 60s, early 70s?
Yeah, right around in there.
Okay.
Were you a collector of anything prior to this?
Oh, as a child, I collected matchbooks.
I had a great matchbook collection, paper matches, you know, not
something that said, Taggart's a driving school, but restaurants, you know, all that kind of thing.
I collected that.
I suppose I collected seashells when I was little, didn't everyone?
And then, no, too busy with kids and so forth and so on.
So, now, let me also say that Justin Schiller said that you have put together what his
probably the finest children's book collection in private hands.
So when you went at this, you certainly went at it seriously.
Oh, sure.
Yeah, sure.
I think Carl was doing his guns in the cellar, and I thought, well, geez, having such a good time, I should be doing something just as much fun.
I think maybe that was it.
But did it occur to you that if I'm going to do this, I'm going to try and
do it very, very well?
I think probably.
Once I got started.
Because Justin's a terrific salesman, too, I forget.
Did you know pretty much that you wanted illustrated books, books of... No, I wanted American first edition.
Okay, let's define when you decided to become a collector now what you... I wanted American books.
They could be...
I started collecting, I thought the most, I knew enough to know that the early, early books were very religious, moralizing, didactic.
Good words.
Wonderful words.
And I thought that was pretty boring.
So I thought I wanted to start around 1815, because I guess I knew that they had color illustrations
And they were fun.
They were nursery rhymes.
They were this, they were that.
Copies of the English.
But I wanted the American first editions, even if they were copies of the English.
So it started with sort of the earliest date, 1815.
Then, of course, what I discovered was that all those early ones were fascinating and had a lot of
thick groin kind of things, or little early woodcuts that were fascinating.
And so it was quite a job catching up to going back to forever, or forever when we started.
So, I started with about 1815, only because they were fun, they were humorous, they were interesting to me.
And then realized that, of course, the others were wonderful, and what was I doing?
And at that time, I don't think anyone was, they were interested, people were interested mainly.
So the prices were pretty good.
They were interested in English, French, German, not particularly interested in American, for instance.
So I was ahead on that one, meaning nobody else particularly wanted them except me.
That's nice.
That was nice.
It changed.
Just as a parenthetical note, you have some wonderful paintings which were, I guess, originally produced, executed to illustrate children's books.
Was this another collection that kind of developed as a consequence of this?
Yes, it was a consequence of the other, that suddenly, you know, thinking back, I realized how important the illustrations were to me, and that it was all part of the book.
Were you trying to document something?
Yeah, I was trying to, I guess gradually.
I'm trying to document what Young America read, and from that you can sort of tell what was going on, how people treated the young, what they produced for the young.
Have you been able to
Are there any tentative conclusions about... No, I'm not that smart.
Sure, you are in a certain way.
Certainly all those books till, well, probably till the Civil War always seem to have a moral, maybe a religious message.
to children.
Christmas wasn't a legal holiday to Massachusetts until about 1855.
I didn't know that.
So, yeah, so gradually, and then there was a great trend against fairy stories.
That was... Against them?
Oh, yeah.
Things should be, now I forget, you'll have to look this up, but
I think it was Rousseau in France and Panama, maybe, and everything was, fairy stories were terrible, bad for children.
Things should be realistic, and it was very bad.
They were taking the joy and the wonder out of being young, apparently.
Yes.
The fairies were bad.
So that took a while, and there are things.
like Grimm's, and you can sort of see that after about 20-odd years that there aren't any Grimm's fairy tales coming up from the first American edition.
But this happened in England, too, from the earliest Grimm's, well, for quite a long time.
Maybe there might be one edition or something until, say, after the Civil War.
Did you establish a cutoff date for yourself?
No, it was not too bad.
I did, sort of, but it didn't work.
But what was the original cutoff date?
1900, in my mind, was the original cutoff date.
But then there was The Wizard of Oz.
How could you avoid that?
Yeah, it was Dr. Doolittle, and then there were... So, yes, I'm more interested in the old ones.
I do get, if I see them,
when they come out, but I like the Newbury and Caldecon to get those, but then there's Dr. Seuss.
So you're collecting right up until today, then?
No, not really.
Not really.
But certain people, Dr. Seuss, uh, who else?
Eloise, Ludwig Benelmans, uh,
No, I had never heard of Ludwig Bimmelmann's book.
Well, he wrote Madeline.
Do you remember Madeline?
Yes.
You remember Madeline.
That's a girl book.
You remember boy books.
Right.
No, but I heard about him because one of my subjects, Schefter Zathmari from Chicago, the first book he bought in America was a Ludwig Bimmelmann's book.
I just wrote about him.
Well, he's funny.
He's funny.
And they're neat children's books.
Did he do food books, too?
No.
Well, he might have that I don't know of, but I don't think so.
Tell me a little bit now.
Did you anticipate when you started that at some point this would be a collection that would be going to an institution such as you?
No, I don't think so.
You know, gradually it seemed to get bigger and bigger.
But when did it occur to you that you were probably producing something that would really have
a profound scholarly application, let's put it.
I don't know.
Do you think she does?
You almost think so.
Yeah, they're pleased.
I think they're pleased.
I don't think they really thought about children's books.
I think children's books, honestly, are really a window onto history.
Really.
Don't you?
Yeah.
You know, between, you know, today, it's so different for the kids.
All this moralizing stuff, and then I forget what her name is.
You know, it's quite different.
I've got a paperback that says, you can say no to drugs.
Well, I thought I'd better get that for 1991, 89, whatever it was.
So it's quite different, but I've got a book.
1877, it's called something like The House I Live In.
I just got it, so that's how I can tell you that.
And there's no author, but it's for school children about the evils of tobacco, drugs, and drink.
Of course, it's a temperance book.
So, you know, but it's the same thing as today, in a way.
written in a little different style of paperback.
Pick up a little bit more on the Window in the World observation.
She said that children's books are a little endow in history, I guess.
Well, I think you knew how, well, the Grolier Club put out a, had an exhibit, show, I was going to call it, exhibit, that
The hundred most influential books, I think it's called.
Have you seen that?
You must have seen that.
Up to, I forget when.
Well, that's the greater list of the 100 most influential books in history, I guess.
And I think 27 of those are children's books.
Really?
Yeah, I counted them.
Well, that's very it.
No, thanks.
Very, very, very interesting, isn't it?
Twenty-seven of the glory of the hundred.
Twenty-seven of the hundred.
And you could stretch it to a little bit more so that it almost makes a third.
How did you decide what was a children's book?
Like Huckleberry Finn, is that a children's book?
Huckleberry Finn.
Yeah, but that's also an adult book, too, wouldn't you say?
But it's a children's book.
I think it's read in every high school, isn't it?
It's on the reading.
He says at the very beginning that
I guess I'm naming this for kids, but I'd like to think that the older reader will get a little something out of it.
I think it's meant to be that Moby Dick, aren't they?
Meant to be the two major American books?
Certainly of the 19th century.
Scarlet Letter, you'd have to throw in there, I think.
Probably, yeah.
But I don't think Moby Dick was written for kids, though.
No, it wasn't written for kids, thank God, which means we don't have to try to buy it.
It's impossible.
Billion dollars.
Unbelievable.
Did you develop a want list, or did you kind of rely on the judgment of Justin Schiller?
Well, Justin, the way Justin fits in is that I think he's probably the most knowledgeable person
book dealer in children's books.
And that means, I think, France, Germany, all over the world.
I think he's the best.
So, of course, he comes up with things, and then I come up with things.
And if I come up, he thinks, that's great.
Then what he's looking for.
But, you know, after a while,
It's like Christmas catalogs almost daily in the mail, which are fun to look at and see, and some things fit.
But you learn something from all these book dealers that know their business.
They're pretty well cataloged.
They have to be.
Yeah.
Do you have favorites in the collections that are, which I hope you'll show them.
I'm sure you'll show us.
I like everything.
You do?
Well, almost everything.
You know, you do get a couple of things that, uh, that are pretty boring, like a short essay on baptism.
Well, why would you buy that?
Well, because it was, it's for children, about, uh, and it was by Jonathan Fisher, who actually was an early American illustrator, too.
He's a minister in, uh,
Where is it?
Blueville, Maine.
You're going up and take a nap.
I didn't lose it.
I was going to bring the wine and wine out.
That's for me.
Not for me either.
No, I would have if he hadn't had the tape on.
Good night.
I'm going to listen for a minute if you don't mind.
Okay, this is nice.
Did you say, do you develop a want list or do you pretty much know that you want something when you see it?
I think I know that I want it if I see it.
I don't think there's such a thing as a want, really.
Especially with children's books, because it's so hard to know what you want.
It's not what you want.
There's an awful lot of, I don't know what the word is, association.
You see something, and then you think, oh, gee whiz, that should be here, because it goes with such and such.
I do have a want list, like Peter Polly to Penrod.
Do you know what that is?
Well, that is Jacob Blank.
Oh, Jacob Blank.
He wrote a book called Peter Polly to Penrod, and Peter Polly was Samuel Goodrich, and that's the first book in Blank's list, and this is the most influential children's books, meaning from Peter Polly to Penrod, which would be from
1827 to 1922, maybe, was it?
I didn't know Blank did a children.
Yeah, so that's sort of a guide that, gee, should have those books.
So, yes, I want lists for the ones that I don't have on that.
Do you have?
I have most of them.
Most of them?
I'm missing.
Six, seven, something like that.
Out of how many?
I don't know.
I can't remember.
Wow, that's a pretty significant collection.
Well, I think that probably people would have every one of them.
Oh, I wouldn't be so sure.
I don't know.
I think that your collection is probably... Justin would know that.
But I'm sure that... But Justin told me that, to quote him again, that your collection is, in his estimation, the finest in private hands.
Well, that'd be great.
And...
But I don't know that it is.
And actually, I don't know, I guess, any private collector that, but I know Philadelphia Public Library, California.
AAS, yeah.
Oh, there are lots, but they're all institutions.
And of course, they have some super, super things that
Morgan has some nice things.
Morgan, that's... Oh, and Indiana, too.
And IU has some nice things.
Lily has some nice things.
Princeton has some nice things.
The Osborne Collection in Toronto is exceptional.
The Opie Collection at the Bodleian.
Yeah, all of them.
It's very important.
So I don't know where... But every one we just mentioned, you see, is in an institution.
Well, these are going to announce... I know.
One of the themes that I'm trying to develop is how...
how much institutions rely and depend on people such as yourself.
Well, this is true, and of course the kids have said, well now, you've had so much fun buying, because it's too bad to put it in an institution, and other people not have the fun of getting things.
And I must say the old books, the chapbooks, you know, the pre, let's say 1820, which is AAA,
Well, you don't see too many of them, very much.
Is condition important to you?
Yes, and that's what Justin's great at.
Honestly, I don't think he buys anything that's not in really good condition.
And yes, it is.
It's just great to have them.
Because when you think of children's books, they're published for children.
yeah and you can tell with it i mean a lot of these things that i don't you know i get tired of the didactic ones they're beautiful drawing well no child ever bothered to read it and then you find something fun and there's scribbling on one side of the page and name and a drawing and you just know that they loved it
And that expression, they loved it to them.
So, yes, I do get some things that aren't in great condition, but it's the only way I'm going to get them.
But I imagine when you have a case like that, a book like that, where a kid from 75 or 80 or 100 years ago, and it's...
It's part of the charm.
You're jumping back, and you're looking at a child a hundred years ago, and the reaction.
Yeah, right.
And there's something really very, very great.
Yeah, and I think AAS is redoing their children's catalog now, and I think they're putting in the inscriptions.
You know, it's very formal.
Nicholas from his brother Jonathan on Christmas, or it might be Nicholas for his diligence and so forth from a Sunday school teacher, and you know, all those add to it.
But most of the Sunday school ones
We're in good shape.
We're rich.
But I don't think the books, actually, that they pass out at high school graduations get read too much either.
Do you?
Well, have you heard of Ruth Baldwin's collection down there?
Oh, sure.
I went to see that about a year and a half ago, and I'm writing about her.
That's where Bernie McTeague is.
Bernie's the one who told me that I really had to go down there.
It's great.
And he said, you're not going to believe this thing.
Yeah.
And in fact, this woman quite pointedly wanted books that had been read, that had been handled.
And condition was totally irrelevant to her.
Yeah.
She preferred, I mean, you see some of these books with little fingerprints on them.
Oh, sure.
Yeah.
Jam or whatever it is.
You don't know what it is.
And scribblings.
And, and, and it's just a charm there.
Yeah.
You jump back a hundred years and, and the kid could be right here, you know.
were little drawings of somebody in a colonial suit that the child was drawn in.
Did you find any, did you find a coolness on the part of Yale when you first proposed?
Do you think that they perhaps thought that a collection of children's books maybe didn't have a scholarly application?
Did you have to persuade them that this was something that they ought to?
I think they, the light.
I think Ralph, Ralph,
Franklin.
I thought it was great.
And Vincent Giroux, who I sort of work with, thought it was great.
That's great.
And how is it?
Are you moving it up gradually?
Yeah, I'm trying to do it in some kind of a logical order.
But I do my own cataloging and put them right away behind.
And I don't want to use
a computer because it's too late to start using a computer.
So I have a file for authors.
I have a file with a description book.
I have a file for the publishers.
I have a file for the artists.
I have a file for where I got it when.
There's another file I can't remember.
So each book may have four or five entries.
on a page, on a separate page.
So it texts me, you know, my kids say, is that a typewriter?
Is that what a typewriter is like?
That's right, they don't have typewriters anymore.
No, no.
So, but I'm sure not going to start from the beginning again.
Could you give me a rough idea of how large the collection is?
No, I have no idea.
I really don't.
I have no idea.
Really?
10,000, 15,000, 20,000 titles?
I have no idea.
I'll show you the seller before you leave.
I'll show you where the books are.
And I'll make a guess.
And then you can go to Yale and see what they've got there.
Okay.
And you can make a guess.
I honestly don't know.
And when did you start sending them over to Yale?
Is this something that's just started recently?
Oh, that's a nice call.
Maybe three, four years ago, three years ago, four years ago.
Good.
I'll give Ralph a call then.
Maybe he can give me a quote on it.
Ask for Vincent Giraud.
B-I-N-C-E-N-T.
He's a Frenchman.
G-E-R-A-U-D.
Okay, I've heard of him before.
Yeah, and he's the guy that I hadn't exhibited yet last year.
And I'll give you a panel on it.
Oh, I'd love that.
Yeah.
And it was a good show.
And Maurice Sendak, do you know him?
Yes.
And he came up and opened it.
Well, he's a collector, too.
Yeah.
You want to go see him?
Yeah, Sendak supposedly really is quite a collector.
Yeah.
And I've met him a couple times.
He's great.
He's neat.
He's wonderful.
Yeah.
I love his stuff.
Yeah, so do I.
I don't like it very much.
They've got a great Sendak collection at the Rosenbach of Philadelphia.
I know.
I've got three of his original drawings, but mine are studies for, because all his original drawings go to Rosenbach.
But I like it, and he sees an awful lot.
Lovely.
I've met him a couple of times.
Yeah.
You ought to go see him.
I don't know if he would want you.
I mean, is he quiet?
I think he changes a little bit.
Yeah, when I interviewed him the first couple times, it was about his work, not his collecting.
And he liked the stories that I wrote, so that was kind of nice.
I left your article in The Times, and I don't know how I'll miss that.
But I also don't remember the story about...
Who's the publishing?
Bingham's, yeah.
And I must, we must have been away, or once in a while, if the weather's bad or something, we missed the paper, and I'm too lazy to go get it.
I'm just looking at that wonderful carving on that chair.
That's a funny thing.
These were Carl's mother's, and they're in Maine, and their house in Maine.
I said, Carl, we've got to bring those down.
There's two of them, one on rockers and one not.
And that has to be Captain January, which was in Child's book.
It's about a lighthouse keeper who rescues a baby lashed to a board or something like that.
And that's what it has to be around 1900.
It was so funny, because if it fits right in, we'll have to bring them down.
Sure.
Yeah.
Do you have Celia Thaxter's lighthouse keeper's daughter?
No.
I have everything that she did except for that.
Have you?
Oh, I've got a great vest collection there.
Oh, because that ties in with your passion.
That ties in with your passion.
That's how it started, actually.
I started collecting it for that.
That's great.
We have friends who... Gosh, how does that relate?
They're in the Navy.
We're in the Navy.
They're retired now.
And they were married in... during the war in...
Well, anyway, whoever it is that they stayed with in, it's not Kennebunk.
I guess maybe it is Kennebunk, but it's on the coast, right across from that island.
Yeah, the Isles of Shoals.
Isles of Shoals.
And anyway, she had lots of stories to tell.
She was that old that she could tell me all about.
all about Cedar Baxter and all about... What an interesting woman.
She must have been.
I don't know too much about her.
I've read quite a bit.
Actually, there was a granddaughter.
She did quite a few children's poems and things.
Poems, yeah.
She's just gone with the wind.
Yeah.
She was a contemporary of Emily Dickinson.
And in her time, Cedar was right up there.
That's right.
Just below Longfellow.
They seemed to, you know... And Emily couldn't get a thing published.
And then all of a sudden, Cedar, nobody knows who she was...
Celia Fated and Emily King is very collectible right now.
She's wonderful.
Ralph Franklin, who's the director of the library at Yale, he is the expert on Dickinson.
I didn't know that.
And he's writing, he's been working on it, I think it's going to be maybe three volumes on Emily Dickinson, and that's his specialty, and he's meant to be the
not meant to be i think he is the authority on uh dickinson i love uh pardon me if i keep looking over at the ass i'm over there just you're roaring me in uh carrie did you have any questions that you like that that pretty covers it doesn't it i would love to see a few of your books one other quick question yeah you did mention to me on the phone
that you had an exhibit at the public library, and it was Yankee Doodle?
Yeah.
And tell me a little bit about that.
Well, that was through Bernie McTeague, and what happened here is there's a small museum in Morristown called McCulloch Hall, which is delightful.
It's an old house.
It was at one time somebody's home, but they also had school classes and so forth, which has a broad collection, but a great nest collection.
Because Nast lived across the street in Morristown from McCullough Hall, and actually several people did.
Here I go again.
Not Frost.
No.
Well, Walt Whitman was down in search.
Walter Porzheimer collects also children's books.
It was his father's collection.
Stockton.
He lived here in Northeastern.
Anyway, there were several.
And so they had... I don't know how Bernie got out here, but then they said, would you like to lend us some books for a Christmas thing, which I did.
Bernie probably threw Justin.
I don't know.
came out and saw it and said, how about moving this to New York Public?
So I said, sure, so I can give you that catalog.
But I said I didn't want my name in.
So at that time, I don't think anything had been given to Yale, whenever that was, the dates on the thing.
So that's how I got to know Bernie.
And then...
with much much much editing on bernie's part i wrote an article about santa claus for that time bernie was editor of some magazine collectors i've got one upstairs i'll have to find that but anyway
I'm sure it was completely written, rewritten by Bernie, because it was terrible.
Spelling, population, grammar, as is the Elkhart.
I did it, but they did a lot of grammar, spelling, you know, all that kind of thing.
So that, and then the Brandywine, I lent them a lot of illustrations, and they had a Christmas exhibit of
children's illustrations.
Take a look at the stairs when I get the fun.
This up, I'll show you what it is.
This is maybe a third, quarter, quarter of what's going.
They won't have time to mat it.
This is going to be a one collector exhibit?
Yes, it's going to be, how do you like the title?
Mine.
Dream Makers.
That's a good title.
That's a great one.
Yeah, so it's Dream Makers, and the gal that's the curator of American art used to work at AAS.
Really?
And shall I forget how I know Judy.
She was from California, and she did this
Well, she's done a couple of things.
Where is this?
I'm sorry.
It's a high museum in Atlanta.
Oh, it's Atlanta.
So they're picking up some things tomorrow that they want to reframe or do such and such.
I'm overwhelmed by this.
So all the ones that have this tag are eventually going to Atlanta.
There's the Palmer Cox Brownie books.
Oh.
Well, this is Dolly, and it
You know, he said, what's on your list?
I thought this probably was for, try to think the title.
It wasn't.
And then just by chance, I got an Appleton almanac, and there was that picture in it.
I thought it was Margaret, it was called.
And I thought it was for that, but it's not.
He did some Washington Irving stuff, right?
Yes, he did a lot of stuff.
And this is named by S. Stevens, who I love, and that was in St.
Nicholas magazine.
Found that later.
But he's better than that, because his things are really much better than that.
This is an alphabet, and if you really look, you can see the A, and there's the C, and the D.
I love this.
This is wonderful.
Yeah, well, you just hit it right.
Actually, a couple of things are going down.
And the staircase is perfect.
Well, what's great is the wallpaper because, for instance,
I keep putting nails in and changing things, and you can't see, you see.
So this is, let's see.
Oh, these are wonderful.
This is the funnest piece for Peterkin papers, which was actually the first humorous book written for children without a moral.
Mrs. Peterkins was a lady from Philadelphia, and, you know, she couldn't get the Christmas tree in the house
Without cutting a hole in the ceiling, you couldn't figure it out.
The piano stayed on the porch, because they couldn't get in.
You played through the window, you know, that kind of thing.
This guy, now, I've got to try and remember his name.
I'm lost for a minute.
But anyway, that's a woodcut from his alphabet, which is based on the Englishman Nicholson's hand.
That's a wonderful look at that.
It's nice, isn't it?
You pulled that a couple times through the block, too, didn't you?
This, I mean, this is not a, another funny, I have four of these, which I got from Justin, and they were for blocks, wooden blocks, eight-sided wooden blocks.
Oh, wow.
That he did of the brownies for McGlaw prints, and maybe two years later, there in a bookstore were the blocks.
The blocks?
You got the actual blocks?
So I've got the blocks.
Oh, nice.
But two or three years later,
We're talking about Captain January.
That's Captain January.
That is F.C.
Merrill, M.E.R.
I.O.
Yeah.
I'm sorry.
He's wonderful.
He, uh... I think her name is Rosebud or something marvelous.
Oh, this is Sendak, the study for where the wild things are.
Yeah.
It's a watercolor, perhaps, though?
That's... I forget what it is.
Maybe it says on the back that they used it.
Watercolor and ink on paper.
Mm-hmm.
You see?
You can't see... And that's for where the wild things are.
That's... Yes, that's... That's got to be many... quite a few years old.
I don't think it's hanging on the... Sixty-nine.
No, it isn't.
There it is.
Okay, there it is, yeah.
I've got it now.
That's Harrison Cady, who did Thornton Burgess...
But you see the real diamond?
Of course.
This is, uh, one at the Groglia 100th, Little Lord Fauntleroy.
And who's the artist for that?
That's Birch.
Uh-huh.
And, and, uh... B-A-R-C-A.
I forget.
Somebody described, uh, I forget whose book it was, but there was a fan.
The little boys would now have long hair.
This was about 19...
No, he was 18, probably 85, somewhere around in there.
And I forget, somebody described it, but maybe it's in the Gloria thing, that every little boy's ready to throw up.
He was mad that his mother made him look like that.
That's Raggedy Ann and Andy.
Now, is that the original art for the founding book?
No, not for the book.
It must have been done.
I have two.
One's signed, one isn't signed.
It's a remarkable collection.
It's not in the book, but it's one of.
That's a poster advertising the Brownian.
That's a syntax in the night kitchen.
That's Shin, study for night before Christmas.
Not used, but the book has the same...
How do we spell Shin?
S-H-I-N-N.
S-H-I-N.
Sorry.
He was one of the eight.
Do you remember that group?
Oh, the eight.
Oh, right.
The eight.
Oh, that's Shin.
That's Shin.
I'm not sure quite what that is.
It's James Doherty, and I'm not sure if it's the lithograph or the sketch.
I'm not good enough to know, but Abraham Lincoln and Sandberg.
Doherty illustrated the sketch, I think, in a couple.
This is Toby Tyler?
You don't know Toby Tyler?
No.
Well, see, you're too old.
This was, uh, every little boy thought this was great.
You ran away and joined the circus.
Of course, you're quite homesick.
And, uh, uh, so Toby's making a friend with his friend.
The monkey.
And, uh, so it's the story of
The funny thing about this, I think, and I'm not sure, I've got to recount, because I think I've got every original.
This is Rogers did them.
And I think I have all the original drawings for this book, which is very popular in those days, except for one.
And that was my brother's favorite book, and he was here one day.
And I said, you know, I've got all ones from Toby Todd except for one.
He said, guess who has the other?
That's a cute story.
So he gave it to his son, and I keep saying, do you think Wally would like to get rid of it?
And I keep getting no answer, and I don't want to push him.
This is Pyle for the chapter heading and one illustration.
The great red fox calls upon the sausage, how three went out into the world.
It's frustrating.
Yeah, that's wonderful.
Now, she's modern.
But this is Edward Lear's... Edward Lear.
The story was by Edward Lear, finished by Ogden Nash.
And it's called... Do you want to know the name?
Sure.
No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.
But she's alive and well and lives in Wisconsin, and her name's Nancy Burgess.
Oh, I know Nancy Birkin.
Yeah.
This is modern, but it's Bear Rabbit.
Looks like Barry Moser.
And it is.
Yeah, with a good eye.
And he's got the fox in the trunk, and he's about to pour in on the water.
And I think it says his thinking machine is working.
This is Kurt Weiss, and it's the all-American...
baseball league.
This I attribute to Maud Humphrey.
She's the only one I know that's truly ultra-sweet children, and they're sort of her colors, and I think she did this.
Maud, what's Maud, M-A-U-D?
Maud Humphrey.
And that's Reginald Denslow from The Wizard of Oz, and that's Scarecrow boiling the
Tin Man.
This is Otto.
Oh, Otto.
I know Otto.
You know Otto?
Yeah, he's got an Otto book, isn't he?
Yeah, and too big to get on the book and so forth.
This guy, I think, is great.
I've got quite a few of his.
His name was Mora, and it's for Renier the Fox.
And they were done around 1900, and there's another one.
one of the jobs out there.
But I think just it's coming out of the, you know, it's poor out and so forth.
They've got a lot of action.
This is a takeoff on Kate Greenaway, which Auckland's pirated, and we copied.
I think I've got the books for all of these.
Yeah.
This is a study for Tom Sawyer and Huffington.
I was going to say that, but I didn't want to say anything.
Yeah.
Where he says, what have you got there?
And he says, a dead cat.
And he says something about Jesus death or something.
That's the little guy that's on the pictorial cloth of Tom Sawyer, I think.
Well, the pictures in the book, it's slightly different.
You can see, I forget, you can see his corncloth.
caught pipe in the illustration that was used.
And I think there's a handkerchief or something here.
But it's just about the same.
Wonderful.
These are kind of fun.
These are the color.
You feel like the crazy?
This was a flap book.
And this flap, I've got the book, I'll show you.
It comes to, I guess it must come to over here or somewhere.
And then you open the flap.
You know, it's like a transformation.
This is the Sendak that... I just moved Eloise from here.
This is the Sendak for The Hobbit, but it was never published because Sendak and Tolkien had a fight.
Yeah, I didn't think he did The Hobbit.
That's Parrish.
I don't know what from.
This is the ... I've always looked for this book.
I've never found it.
Good Night Moon.
The proof ... proof for the dust jacket.
By Clement Hurd.
Good Night Moon.
And when I had this exhibit at Yale, I think there must have been eight people who said, why don't you go?
I had this by then, but it was too late to go up to Yale.
And through a friend who's a cousin at Clement Heard, that was how I got it.
And I talked to him, and I said, where's, do you have first edition?
Could I possibly get one?
He said, I don't think I've got one.
It was published.
It wasn't very popular.
They republished, and it took off.
But he said, I've got that.
Original drawing by John Neal.
Not John.
Neal.
For TikTok.
This is Goops.
Do you know the Goops?
No.
Well, that's Gillette Burgess and the Goops.
I think the Goops are still republished.
There was a Burgess book that just came out about three years ago, as a matter of fact.
I think they redid it during that.
And here's a poster of advertising it.
This is a key.
This is English, but you have to load it.
I couldn't.
This is Lear.
And it says here, my dear Mrs. Digby.
Oh, that's funny.
So sorry that... It's to say yes, he'd like to come for tea.
We're getting her away.
Paper, something, something.
And it says, the Grazzi softened.
The Grazzi.
Yeah, December 4th.
1868.
And that is where we stand?
Yeah.
So that's great.
That's great.
Let's see, this guy that I can't find out anything about, but his name is Hochstein, and I love his things.
I just can't find out anything about him.
And this is Parish for Irving's, uh, Knickerbocker, uh, you know, History of New York.
Sure.
Famous.
And, let's see, around the corner here we have, we have, uh... It's a Winslow Homer.
Yeah, that's, uh... This, again, will be Tyler.
This is the one that precedes the great painting, I believe you said.
Does it?
No, it must be taken from the painting.
You'd be surprised.
In many cases, like the Harper's Weekly, things precede the painting books.
No, no, I don't know.
I'll find out for you.
It doesn't have a date.
It's wonderful.
The girl's mother gave it to him when he graduated from college, I guess.
But from that date, I know it's one of the original first etchings.
I know that much.
But I don't know the last.
And the original, I guess he got it when he graduated from Andover.
Because the original painting was Andover.
Did Homer sign these?
No, but he did that.
Again, I've got something I can look up to try and tell you what.
I'm just really excited about it.
The, uh, this is an uncut sheet for something called... Oh, yeah.
Oh, yeah.
The Path of Learning Strewed with Flowers, which was an English book.
That's famous.
Yes.
They had that at the Morgan Show last year, I think.
The same, an uncut sheet?
I don't know if it was an uncut sheet.
Yeah.
And it was republished here.
And, of course, they had, like, a whole bunch of school kids and
You did blue, and I did yellow, and you, you have to be a girl who did brown, you know, and that's the way they colored.
That's Toby Todd again.
That's the more that you've seen.
This is Den's love endpapers for Mother Goose.
Oh, boy.
That's he signed a D-E-N.
Yeah.
Yeah, there he is.
With a sort of keyhole.
Poseidon there, whatever you call it.
This is Benelman's Madeline.
Oh, yeah.
Which Madeline's in the hospital.
She's had her appendix.
That she really shouldn't look at, but they, uh... I love these.
Are you kidding?
We're at home now.
Isn't it awful?
Well, those are just for the blocks.
There's two up there.
The two underneath are for, uh, uh, they're after George Cruikshank, and it's the Queen of Hearts.
Yeah.
A McLaughlin thing.
All of these... Oh, that was, that was New York Public Library.
There it is, Nick Doodle.
Yeah.
And it's from Witches to Wonderland, with a dash, Wonderland.
American children's book, 1692-1947, and that was your... That was it, yeah.
The Witches, uh,
I was sort of a cheat, but I couldn't resist it.
The witches were the ones that said there were witches, were children.
So that was it, and I have an indenture for the arrest of Mary English, because she That's just a witch child.
Two, is it, or 1690?
Well, it's two, because they're having their 300th anniversary this year.
Yeah, that was it then, and it's an indenture for the arrest of Mary English for what you see in the catalog.
This is where all the work... You do all your own work.
Yeah.
That must be fun.
Is that where the... Oh, I enjoy it at no end.
I'll never in my lifetime get caught up.
So you know the collection quite... I know.
Is that a collection... That's the only way I'd know it, you know, is because I do it.
That's a poster for The Lark, which was Gillette Burgess, a poster advertising St.
Nicholas, and that's a poster for Father Goose.
His book.
And here's another poster for Father Goose's book.
Denslow and Denslow, of course.
This is your study.
Yes.
Yeah.
You want to call it that?
That sounds pretty nice.
Very nice.
I see you work with your back to the panorama, because it's almost impossible to do work.
Oh, yeah.
That looks nice.
I'd straighten that out, because I thought you might be up here.
So, anyway, somehow or other I get there.
Oh, yeah.
I'll have to show you downstairs.
Tell us a little bit about the family.
You have how many grandchildren?
Six grandchildren.
I'll show you pictures downstairs just to show off.
But that, you know, I told you about files.
This is, uh, these are authors.
These are publishers.
This describes the book.
Well, this is a pretty extensive collection.
And these are prints that I don't, they have no room at all.
This is the one I forgot.
This is the title, and these are the illustrations.